Taken from <a class="btn-large" href="https://www.goodcountry.org/the-good-generation/">the good generation page of goodcountry.org</a>, here is the <a class="btn-large" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mzeT8fBnZJ4">video transcript</a>

I don't know I'm so sick of talking I've
only just started it seems to be years
and years and years that I've been
standing on stages and I've been talking
about the global challenges and it's
taught I talk we will talk I'm really
really desperate for something to happen
and I think we all are something has
really got to happen soon actually not
soon now so for that reason the talk I'm
going to give you this morning is not
really a normal keynote it's actually
something a little bit different I'm
asking for your help you the people in
this room and your colleagues around the
world are I think exactly the people who
can help me with a little project know
what am I saying
a big project which I'd like to launch I
haven't really talked about this project
very much in public yet I thought I'd
wait until I met you this morning and
tell you about it and see if I can get
your help now I could do this appeal for
help in about five minutes but I've
actually got 23 minutes and 18 seconds
so I'll give you a bit of background to
it so you can perhaps understand where
my thinking has come from and how its
developed over the last 20 years
it all starts well it always starts with
a list a long list of all of the
challenges that are facing Humanity in
the 21st century and if you give me 30
seconds I can give you 30 grand
challenges and I'm sure you can do the
same we hear them all the time it
usually starts with climate change and
then it goes on to weapons proliferation
conflict poverty inequality terror
pandemics human rights abuses narco
trafficking modern-day slavery small
arms proliferation education illiteracy
infant mortality we could go on and on
and on and this is new this is the age
of the long challenge it's never been
like this before
well in one sense it was like this
before it was like this at the very very
beginning
do you remember 60 or 70 thousand years
ago when we were one tribe living in
Africa we were one tribe facing a single
set of challenges
and we worked together to face those
challenges do you remember that and we
were good we defeated most of those
challenges and we survived and we
prospered and we walked out of Africa
and over the following tens of thousands
of years we covered almost the whole
planet the story of human progress since
that day when we walked out of Africa
has been a story of us the human tribe
trying to get back together again and
the amazing thing is that today as I
stand here and talk to you we've almost
achieved that aim we are within
millimeters of being a single tribe
again because we are within millimeters
of all being able to talk to each other
once again as if we were all sitting
around the same campfire and of course
we are once again all facing the same
challenges and the reason that we're
facing those challenges this time is all
our own fault now for the last 20 years
have Sabine said my day job has been
advising governments around the world
and when I asked them about their
challenges what is it that's bothering
you
I began to notice very very soon after I
started this work that I never heard any
different answers to those challenges I
can't remember the last time one country
told me about a challenge it was facing
that was purely 100 percent domestic
every challenge that every country ever
tells me about is a challenge I've heard
20 30 40 times before from other
countries all of our problems today are
thoroughly globalized in fact the
problem with the world that we're living
in at the moment is that our problems
our challenges are more globalized than
our solutions this is the imbalance
Mexico can't fix drug trafficking on its
own because it's bigger than Mexico its
global China can't fix climate change
because it's bigger than China its
global and so forth Europe can't fix
migration because it's bigger than
Europe we have to work together if we're
going to confront the challenges of the
21st century we need cooperation and
collaboration between nations as the
default but that's just the problem it's
not the default it's never changed from
that morning when the Treaty of
Westphalia was signed and the
nation-state came into being we are
still countries of the world configured
like warring competing tribes America
first Britain first Guatemala first
Iceland first we all do it all the time
because that's the way we're still
programmed and it's suicidal we have to
learn to change the culture of
governance worldwide from one that is
fundamentally competitive to one that is
fundamentally collaborative now
thank you don't get me wrong I don't
have a problem with competition I think
competition is a very very valuable
instinct it's a profoundly rooted part
of human nature we all have it inside us
and it's good it's powerful it has of
course lifted billions of people out of
poverty over the last century
competition becomes a problem only when
it is the only altar at which we worship
and that has been the story for the last
80 years competition only makes sense
when it is wisely mixed with cooperation
and collaboration industry has known
this for decades academia has known this
for decades universities are almost the
perfect example of organizations that
compete and collaborate it's about time
that countries learnt a lesson from
universities and discovered that you can
do both of those and it works now I
mentioned just now the phrase America
first but let me be clear I don't have a
problem at all with President Trump's
statement of America first it seems to
me to be a statement of the bleeding
obvious if you're the president of a
country and you've been elected to lead
them of course you put that country
first but what I find depressing about
the insinuation of many populist leaders
today is the assumption that you coming
first means everybody else has to come
last and this is just plainly not the
case so right now if we look at those
global challenges
you're adorable if we look at those
global challenges it's very very easy to
get extremely disheartened extremely
depressed I actually sometimes wonder in
some of the countries that are going
through a great deal of misery and
turbulence at the moment whether in fact
the entire population isn't suffering
from some mild persistent form of
clinical depression I'm not kidding it
really does feel that way doesn't it
every day you turn on the TV or you open
your browser hardly daring to see what's
happened next and it's very very easy to
get overwhelmed by this but I've thought
about it and I've thought about it and
I've talked about it and I've talked
about it and I've come to the conclusion
that you can actually simplify it down
to two problems and two solutions so
bear with me this is simplistic some
people even call it naive but I was a
little bit anxious about that word naive
there is a sort of a tradition actually
a modern habit of assuming that anything
that is simple plus hopeful must be
naive sometimes that's true but not
always sometimes simple plus hopeful is
just what we need and I'm hope I'm right
about that
so the two problems that humanity is
facing at the moment forget the list of
30 grand challenges forget the SDGs for
a moment those are all just symptoms of
two underlying problems one the way that
countries behave - the way that people
behave every single one of those global
challenges has got one thing in common
it's our fault we've done it people and
countries the way that they behave
together are one of the main reasons why
we're not making more progress in
resolving those challenges the behavior
of people is one of the main reasons why
they don't go away why they persist and
why we keep on developing new ones so
we're never going to make any progress
we're never going to be able to move for
unless we can change as I said before
the way that countries behave and as I'm
going to say now the way that people
behave so changing the way that
countries behave is a big long story
it's to do as I said with the culture of
governance it's to do with the way that
we elect our politicians around the
world it's to do with the way that we as
citizens behave and the degree to which
we understand or take the trouble to
understand the issues that our
politicians are dealing with it's to do
with education of course because
everything's to do with education I've
spent the last twenty years trying kind
of stupidly on my own to change the way
that countries behave I have not
succeeded in fact after doing this
government advisory trying to help
countries to engage more productively
and more collaboratively with the
international community and proving to
them that this actually makes better
policy than thinking only of yourself
proving to them that it's possible and
effective to harmonize your domestic and
your international responsibilities I
realized after my fifty fourth country
but before I saw an actual change in the
culture of governance I was going to be
962 and it would be a little bit late
for me even if it wasn't too late for
everybody else so I began to think to
myself well maybe what we actually need
here is what we call a pincer action
like a pair of scissors if I and I hope
many other people and I'm working on
that too are giving private advice to
governments and showing to them helping
them to understand how collaborating
more is actually more competitive
behavior will improve their economies
will improve their societies and their
cultures if we've also got those
politicians voters or in the cases where
they're not democratic at least the
people who don't kick them out of power
saying the same things then maybe things
really could start to change but I said
that every problem was fundamentally a
problem of human behavior and if people
are the problem then
are the solution why do people behave
the way they behave well the simplest
possible answer is because that's the
way that they've been educated and one
of the reasons why things are really not
looking better any quicker is because we
still bring up our children in the way
that we brought them up before our
problems became globalized we're still
teaching them and training them to
expect to live in a closed domestic
society we're not yet bringing them up
to be global citizens we're not yet
bringing them up to understand the
interconnectedness and the
interdependence of the human race and of
the planet that we all live on this is
the thing that's got to change
it's very very difficult to change the
behavior of adults and this is a lesson
that Greta Turnberry is discovering this
week she's been discovering it all her
young life you take an adult and you
shake them but they will not change
because by the time you've reached the
age of 30 you've already decided
everything it's so so hard to change the
behavior of grown-ups but kids huh it's
easy the jesuits the Christian sect used
to say in their schools give me the boy
and I will give you the man they haven't
invented women when they made up that
there's something very profoundly true
and potentially very sinister of course
in that statement but let's look at the
profound truth of it
the way that we bring up our children is
of course the shape of the world
tomorrow now this is kind of so obvious
and particularly with you guys I feel a
little bit ashamed about pointing it out
because it is as Homer Simpson would say
a little bit da and in fact all over the
world there are thousands maybe more
maybe tens of thousands of educational
projects which are trying very hard some
of them with enormous success to bring
up a new generation of children that
instead of running away from the world's
challenges will run towards them and
that's what we need and there are
thousands of these projects the problem
is that they're too many they're too
small they're not sufficiently ambitious
most of them and they're very local and
they tend to be just one subject you've
got sub-national regions of Canada
teaching children about climate change
you've got individual schools or groups
of schools in sub-saharan Africa
teaching children about tolerance and
that's great and we know it works
because every time somebody tries an
experiment like that we can see the
potential and very often even the
reality of it actually making a big
difference for those tiny tiny numbers
but as I said right at the beginning I'm
sick of talking and one of the things
that's really really dawning on all of
us suddenly right now almost this week
is that we have reached a crisis point
the talking has got to be added on to
some action right now and immediately so
here's my suggestion and here's what I'd
like your help with what I think we need
now is we need to embrace all of those
educational projects around the world we
need to accept and understand that
basically what they're trying to do is
to create a better generation and we
need to pull them together and we need
to turn them into a single global
compact the idea occurred to me just a
few months ago and for various reasons I
was looking at the websites of a lot of
NGOs and chair
and I began to notice the same phrased
occurring over and over again on these
websites almost in the same words every
time it said something like and we must
leave the world in a better state for
our children and I found myself thinking
that is so arrogant isn't it
the idea that you can take some gigantic
systemic crisis like climate change
which has taken the emissions and
commissions of billions of people
centuries to perpetrate and you're going
to fix it before you check out sometimes
you know believe it or not we're just a
little bit too impatient sometimes we
fail to understand the speed at which
humanity really does operate it's slower
than we would like and at the moment it
might even be slower than we need but we
must hold our nerve because this is
going to take a generation it will take
a generation because that's exactly the
timeframe that's required to replace the
psychological cultural and social DNA
that has caused all the global
challenges so what I'm suggesting is
this a project which I'm calling the
good generation and the idea behind the
good generation is very simply that we
start off with a gigantic online global
conversation we try and include as many
people as we possibly can from all over
the world and we ask them to join this
discussion about what are the virtues or
as we would say in the West the values
that can lead towards a new generation a
generation that as I said runs towards
the challenges instead of running away
from them how do we want to raise our
children and I would hope I don't know
how long this will take but at the end
of this big conversation we'll end up
with a set of virtues or values maybe
five or six maybe eight or ten I don't
know probably not more than ten and then
what we're going to do is we're going to
create a global compact around those
educational values now if anybody thinks
that that's difficult they're right if
anybody thinks it's
impossible they're wrong because we've
done it before and if anybody thinks
that creating a global Accord on values
as sensitive as the way that we bring up
our children is too difficult because of
cultural differences because of
linguistic and religious and
geographical and economic differences
take a look at a document called the UN
Charter on Human Rights it's a very very
moving document and it's a demonstration
indeed as is the UN Charter itself but
when humanity really does need to get
together those cultural differences
aren't an obstacle for very long trust
me I'm an anthropologist if we really
need to get together and we really need
to agree on these things we can do it
it's not rocket science in fact one of
the problems in the world today if you
ask me is that we have a tendency to
exaggerate our differences fundamentally
this is pretty straightforward and
pretty practical we've got to stop
messing up the planet and we've got to
stop fighting each other you can't get
more simple than that and I've never
come across a half-decent culture or
religion that doesn't agree with those
fundamental principles so once we then
collected all of these values together
and we've designed this global compact
then I have a sort of a vision in my
mind that we might get perhaps a hundred
perhaps two hundred ministers of
Education from all over the world to
meet together and sign this compact for
some reason which I won't go into now in
my mind it's in Venice I sort of see
these hundred ministers of Education
coming into Sint Mark's Square in
gondolas well they wouldn't go into the
square they've come to the Grand Canal
in gondolas and they walk through and
they'd meet at the proko gratia their
care and they would sign this Global
Compact and it would be live-streamed
all over the world and the 10% of people
minimum 10 percent of the people who my
research tells me think of themselves as
global citizens first and citizens of
their own nations second will suddenly
feel an unfamiliar sensation in their
breasts a feeling of hope maybe we're
not all going to hell in a handbasket
maybe we are moving forwards maybe we
can move
maybe we just have to hold our nerve for
one generation but we can do it so
that's the little project don't do that
save it till the end I'm running out of
time so that's the project now here's
why I want is to tell you about him
because obviously it is pretty ambitious
and obviously if I have and if anybody
who's working with me on this shares
that determination to make it not talk
but action to make it actually happen
then I'm gonna need some help right now
it is just me and I need a big powerful
partner to help me push this through and
to make sure that it happens and happens
well and happens for good and I thought
to myself the ideal partner is probably
the world's universities because
universities are just perfect their
centers of learning they're
international there in every city in
many towns all over the world people in
universities because they're scholars
and because they're researchers will
understand and a great many of them will
probably share these fundamental beliefs
they're connected the universities of
the world are a sort of new diplomatic
network which has never really been lit
up yet but it could and it should
universities understand education and
this is all about education they
understand it technically they
understand it personally because that's
how they got there universities can form
the bridge between governments and
children universities can help
understand exactly how we're going to
teach these children to be the new
generation that we so badly need I'm not
suggesting by the way that we should go
around the world teaching climate change
or teaching tolerance because that has
been tried before and it doesn't always
work my own experience of Education is
that if you want to change people's
behavior in a positive way you have to
do it with them being aware of it then
you need their permission you can't just
inject them with something without them
realizing it and they have to be a
participant our discussant in the
process and it's much better if you're
teaching them something that is
inherently useful at the same time so
for example if you want to teach
tolerance don't teach tour
let's teach cultural anthropology I know
this myself because I tried it on my own
children when they were about six if you
teach cultural and with anthropology to
six-year-olds a is a subject they
absolutely love and be more importantly
they start to take a scientific pride in
understanding cultural difference and if
you take a scientific pride in
understanding cultural difference you
are incapable of tolerance intolerance
you are incapable of ignorance or racism
it's just not in your being because your
scientific pride rebels against it so
this is the kind of approach if we want
to cure climate change we don't teach
kids about climate change we teach them
about meteorology or oceanography so
maybe they'll switch off the damn light
when they leave the bedroom that's the
way that it works we come at it sideways
so that's really pretty much everything
I wanted to tell you the good generation
is a project that I want to launch as
soon as possible and what I wanted to do
today because I had the honor and the
privilege of being able to speak to you
about it first I wanted to ask you will
you help and if you do want to help
let's talk about it let's have a
conversation
I suggest Twitter I think Twitter is
really good for these kinds of things of
course you can also email me if you want
if you want to email me directly that
I'd be absolutely thrilled Simon at good
dot country Simon at good dot country
I'd love to hear from you and I will
answer the email if everybody 6,000
people send me an email on the same day
it might take a week or two for me to
answer but I will answer but I think
more useful for the general open
conversation so we can all know what
each other is saying let's use Twitter
and let's use the hashtag good
generation hashtag good generation and
let's discuss a few things let's do a
trial run of that big global discussion
about the values and the virtues that
would underpin this if you've got
suggestions about what those values or
virtues should be if you know about work
that's already been done in this area
let's tweet about it let's discuss it
and see how it goes
I want to get a sense of how many people
within this group within this global
community are keen to participate I want
to talk to you about how it could work
at the individual level of your
university there's a whole other
conversation there about what makes a
good University like a good country one
that harmonizes its internal
responsibilities with the
responsibilities of the world around it
and that's part of the motivation for
getting involved let's discuss that and
if we find that there is a willingness
amongst a reasonable number of people in
institutions to do this together then
for heaven's sake let's do it together
[Applause]