I build content, architected solutions for people.  We usually have in our IT systems, “actors” who are the people who interact with the system for example: you Mustafa, you are an Enabler, you work in the social space trying to do social entrepreneurship for people.  Now, wouldn't it be nice if you knew how many companies there were looking for CSR projects ideas.  Wouldn't it be nice if you knew what the budget for the Government, Ministry of Human Resources was on developing skills and what the PIE chart looked like on where they wanted professionals and from which walks of life.

This one is a little ambitious but i am hoping we can build and eco system where government, ruling party, other parties, civil departments, ministries of government, educational and training institutions, Ministry of Corporate Affairs in business networks, NGOs, communities and individuals can all come together to have a smooth functioning, communication across the society and also have a pulse on what exactly is going on.  For instance, a ruling party could for its own benefit know exactly how many civil departments are under fire for bad things where the help is needed.  The civil department could issue a notice or a circular saying that it has a dearth of jobs with these job descriptions or the upcoming entrepreneur could know from the Ministry of Human Resources where the potential is, where the strengths are, where the plans are for _X_ Y_Z_ things. 

This information is all there on the internet but it is all information it is not something you can act on so what if a common man, an individual or a community could raise a ticket on the civil departments saying the roads need to be cleaned.  They will call, they will use cloud to get a newspaper person to 
make some hullabaloo about it, it may or may not get addressed but one year later it is forgotten, it is not a ticket, stored in a system that anyone can see and act on, right so I am talking about the information, information systems is what IT is all about and this is how we can actually make something that everyone can use. That puts everyone in one system where information is shared, valuable information is given supposing two parties are going in for a debate it can be tracked that when something is done who backed it, who got the support for it, who executed it.  So immediately the ruling party could know in a given sector which business did the outstanding work in social service in the last year and how to award them with funds, stuff like that. These are just examples.

I am inviting you to join me in a discussion [as product owner, knowing the market] where we define all of these use cases as we call them. [A use case is defined like - actor A does action B to the system involving actor C and D is the outcome, that is an example of a use case.

I am inviting you and others like you who have so much experience in the civil/social field to come forward and help us build this into an act, get funding for it, I think anywhere between 1 lac and 20 lacs is a good amount to start with for building this and getting the word out. We do not offer it free, we ask people to pay according to their usage. So if it is a civil department managing 500 public created tickets and 200 internal tickets there is a higher charge for it. If it is an individual who has more than 10 cases registered and he wants to see himself as a social activist there is some nominal charge. Also, if the MCA decides it wants to rate its organisations or list which ones are fraudulent they can do that also on this website. 

I think it is a great start, let's see where this goes.

29 Jan 2021
Imran
